Online Shopping System
prajwal patil
1BM19CS062
Software Requirements Specifications
Purpose: The Online Shopping System is a web Application which is 
Intended to provide complete solutions for vendors as well as 
customers through a single gateway using the internet. It will enable 
vendors to setup online shops, customers to browse through the shop
and purchase them online without having to visit the shop physically. 
The administration module will enable a system administrator to
approve and reject requests for new shops and maintain various lists of 
shop categories.
Scope: E-commerce is a term for any type of business, or commercial 
transaction that involves the transfer of information across the 
internet. It covers a range of different types of businesses from 
consumer-based retail sites, through auction or music sites, to 
business trading goods and services between corporations. It is 
currently the most important aspect of the internet to emerge.
Functional Requirements:
 Minimum steps to make a purchase
 Mobile-friendliness
 Unique, recognizable design
 Relevant, useful content
 Shipping & payment systems integration
 Live chat
Non-functional Requirements:
♦ Provide better performance than usual as the website is run from 
a server and takes an initial load of internet to fetch.
♦ Provide secure data transfer between server and customer 
system.Online Shopping System
PRAJWAL PATIL
1BM17CS062
♦ The server should provide sufficient data storage for 
customer data.
♦ The system should make the whole process reliable.
♦ Providing safety from errors, damages, accidents 
considerable or non-considerable.
♦ The database should be properly maintained
User Requirements:
 Login/sign up page. Homepage containing productions 
according to user interest.
 Screen displaying information about products and user 
searches.
 On selecting a product, the new tab is opened. d. A user copy of 
the invoice generated.
 Order details and order status
 Add products to car